[Music]
psyche
truth life
wisdom hello my name is Mera Hoffman and
today I'm joined with Katrina
rman this video is focusing on yoga for
posture and for pain so if you find that
you're sitting at a desk crunched over
or maybe you're driving a lot you feel
your shoulders you get some neck tension
this is a great video for you it's also
great for low back pain so favorite this
video so you can come back and watch it
again and again we're going to get
started by laying on our mats so go
ahead and get nice and comfortable
laying fully out on the length of your
mat the first pose that we're going to
do is matasa fish pose so rocking from
side to side you're going to tuck your
hands underneath your body Palms facing
down and you really want to try and work
your fingers all the way down towards
your toes as much as possible and then
also bring your elbows in together
towards the midline so you notice that
it's already starting to kind of create
a little rise on my chest that's great
and then we're going to inhale and sit
up into our
forearms looking at the toes and as you
exhale you're going to bring your head
back towards the ground so just the top
of the head barely touching the floor
here and begin to take some nice deep
inhalations here and as you breathe into
to your chest you're really expanding
the lungs expanding and stretching the
intercostal
muscles and also bringing oxygen and
energy into your
body so you can see in this pose this is
great for correcting rounded shoulders
there's a lot of energy in the back just
holding and pushing the torso up towards
the ceiling getting a nice curvature in
the spine
go ahead and take two more deep breaths
here really filling the lungs with this
much oxygen as you
can and as you exhale
releasing all that stagnant air just
breathing it out one more deep
inhalation
again and exhale releasing one inhale
tucking the chin in and as you exhale
roll the back back down to the ground
and rock from side to side to release
your hands we're going to take a mini
rest bit into shavasana corpse pose so
just go ahead and separating the feet a
little bit separating the arms and just
breathing into the full
body and noticing how that one pose
already is starting to bring more energy
and
flexibility into your arms and your
shoulders
[Music]
and bring the legs back together we're
going to bend the knees bringing the
feet to the ground and you just want to
check that your fingertips can touch
your heels your hands are Palms facing
down alongside the body and you're going
to inhale pressing the hips up to the
ground I mean up to the sky and if you
want you can interlace the fingers
underneath the body and just gently roll
the
shoulders to position them more
underneath
your torso so really engaging the legs
you don't want them to be separating out
but really keeping them in a neutral
position and pushing the hips as far up
towards the ceiling as you can getting a
nice counter stretch in the low back so
in matasa fish pose we were really
rounding and opening the shoulders while
in bridge pose we're really rounding and
opening the low
back nice deep breathing
here one more deep
inhalation and exhale releasing the
hands we'll slowly lower the
legs and back to the ground drawing the
legs in we curl them
into the Torso making a nice little
ball you can rock from side to side
really letting
yourself
feel the stretch
here and the
massage and just really working you can
shift the weight so you're getting a
little bit of a massage in the mid back
or if the lower back feels good can do
little circles with your
knees so as we're doing this I just
wanted to check in and ask I know a lot
of people are talking about standing
desk now which I think are a great
alternative to just sitting all day
another great option is using an
exercise ball instead of your chair and
that helps kind of strengthen your core
so I was just curious do you use a
standing desk or an exercise ball if so
do you like it do you use it a lot or do
you have any other tips for us that are
great ways to kind of bring better
awareness to your posture as you're
sitting at your desk all
[Music]
day and slowly coming back to neutral
here we're going to extend the left leg
down to the
ground and we're going to bring the
right knee over that left side to get
come into a nice spinal
twist so you can see that Katrina and I
are pretty close together but if you
wanted to intensify this stretch you
could bring the right arm out to a 90°
angle so I'm just going to be mindful
that Katrina is there but if I was doing
this alone I would just let the arm fall
all the way to the ground
so breathing deeply this is a great
twist for the
back kind of relieve some of the tension
in the low back and shoulders feels
really
nice and one more deep inhalation and
exhalation
here and then we'll draw the right leg
back up and in bringing the left leg to
join it you can do a little in between
rocking kind of reset the
spine and then we'll drop the right leg
all the way down and bring the left knee
over that right side and again just
being mindful of your partner that since
I have extra room to open up that arm
really trying to work both shoulders to
the
ground and getting that knee to the
ground as well
another deep breath
[Music]
here and then inhaling that left knee
back in can bring both legs back into
the
Torso Rock from side to
side and then we're going to rock
forwards and backwards and as you're
walking forwards and backwards just
being mindful of your spine if it feels
like it's too much pressure maybe don't
do it we're going to come up to a seated
position for our forward
bends so as you're sitting on your mat
your legs are extended in front of you
you're going to untuck any flesh from
underneath your sit spones and that's
just going to give you a more stable
base to sit on you'll notice that my
toes are starting to pull back towards
my head what this does is it engages the
front of your legs and already begins to
stretch the back of the legs we're going
to inhale raising the arms up really
reaching to the sky and as you exhale
just fold forward forward letting your
hands come wherever so your hands may be
on your shins that's totally fine maybe
you can reach your ankles that's great
if you can reach your toes you're
welcome to put your first finger and
middle finger around each toe and just
use them as if you're driving or kind of
pulling your torso down so I want you to
inhale and straighten the spine almost
to a 45° angle and then as you exhale
Bend from the waist then from the
midback and then the upper back letting
the head come down last and you'll
notice that that's already begun to
intensify this forward stretch if you
feel like you want to go deeper you can
always inhale and come out a little bit
and then exhale fold down a little bit
more and you can see even with myself
that I'm able to reach a little bit
further each time we do that make sure
that you're continuing to pull the toes
back towards the head and take some nice
deep breaths here always staying with
the breath so inhaling deeply and
fully and as you exhale letting yourself
surrender releasing that
[Music]
oxygen notice with each breath you're
getting little micro movements closer
towards the ground
[Music]
and taking one last breath here we'll
release the hands from wherever they're
holding and inhale reaching
up and exhale the hands back we're going
to come into a counter stretch incline
plane so fingers facing away we're going
to inhale push into the heels and the
hands and you can let the head hang
backwards if this doesn't feel good on
your neck keep your T just chucked in
looking down towards your toes so
wherever feels good to you taking a nice
deep breath
[Music]
here exhale releasing all that oxygen
and deeply breathing
again and then this time exhaling bring
the hips back down we're going to come
into a couple more forward bends just to
help release the low back which I know a
lot of people that sit at desk your low
back tends to get sore achy after a
while we're going to bend the right leg
into that left leg so my right foot is
on the inside of my left thigh here the
knee is just falling out if you feel
like your knee is kind of has a little
bit of pain you can put a little pillow
underneath here just any pillow will do
to kind of help support that there and
we're going to inhale reaching the hands
up
again and exhale folding towards that
left foot so really just coming straight
stra down on it toes are pulling back
towards the head on that left
foot so nice forward bend
here we're only going to stay here for a
couple
[Music]
breaths so breathing nice and
deep feeling yourself reaching further
out towards that left
side and then inhaling coming up we're
going to turn our torso over to the
right leg drop the left hand down and
then exhale the right hand over to that
left foot so getting a little bit of
opening in the left side excuse me in
the right side of the low back here can
start to feel and I'm trying to rotate
my shoulders up to the right
side so breathing deeply
[Music]
and then inhaling we'll come back up
again and exhale the arm down we switch
legs here so extending the right leg
bending the left foot in if you need to
untuck the flesh from underneath the sit
spones feel free to do so again and then
we'll inhale the hands up
and exhale coming forward to that right
foot just straight down on it the right
toes are pulling back towards the
head and as you inhale and exhale deeply
just letting your body fall further
[Music]
forward noticing you're getting a nice
stretch throughout that right leg
[Music]
Last Breath
here and then inhale reaching
up and we're going to turn to face the
left leg the right arm comes down we're
going to Exhale drifting the left arm
back towards that right foot so you can
see I'm twisting open to the left and
what this does is it really activates
and elongates all the muscles on this
left low back feels really
good another deep breath
here and inhale coming back up we'll
exhale dropping the left arm down we'll
come into our final forward bend pose so
bringing both feet together and then
untucking any flesh from underneath your
hips you can pull the feet closer
towards your body if that feels good or
if you need to have them further out
whatever feels good to you so I like to
have mine pretty close in I'm going to
interlace the fingers and scoop them
underneath the toes and this just gives
my hands a holding spot we'll inhale
elongating the spine so you can see I'm
using my arms to draw my torso forward
and straight and then exhale bending
from the mid and low back first and then
the mid back and then the upper back and
lastly letting the head come
down as you are in this posture again
staying with your breath letting the
face
relax letting the neck
relax really letting yourself surrender
to
gravity taking some nice deep breaths
here
[Music]
here you can feel the opening on the
inside of the thighs
[Music]
here if you want to intensify this
stretch you can work work your elbows
out the legs towards the knees and apply
a gentle downward pressure and this will
um increase the opening that you're
feeling in this stretch this is called
banasa Butterfly pose
and last breath here nice deep
[Music]
inhalation and on your next inhalation
we'll slowly roll
up and using your hands you can draw the
legs
together give yourself a nice little
squeeze you can also just rock the leg
from side to side to kind of just open
and relieve the
hips and then coming back into a seated
cross-legged
position so this is a great video to
come back to if you're experiencing any
pain from sitting for long periods of
time let us know if you have any
questions about the standing desk or
exercise ball or if you'd like to see a
video about that to um maximize how you
use those tools and again my name is
Mira hman and this is Katrina rhman you
can find out more about us by tuning
into the psyche truth Channel we have
tons of great videos to help support you
living a healthy full life thank you
have a beautiful day
all
[Music]
good